What's up everybody? Welcome to your
daily digest for Wednesday, May 21st,
2025, where I bring you fact-based,
non-sensational, objective information
about what's going on in the broader
blockchain and cryptocurrency space.
Excuse the lapse in videos as I was away
in Toronto for Consensus 2025, repping
the NEO booth at the cryptocurrency
conference. Let's kick this week off.
In crypto news, Hong Kong has passed a
stablecoin bill which is set to open
licensing by year end. These guys were
talking about this in October 23 when I
was in Hong Kong for the first time when
they wanted to tokenize US debt
instruments and onboard the stable coins
into the regional area and companies
that could use the stable coins. In a
May 21st post on X, the Legislative
Council said that it is expected that by
the end of this year, major institutions
will be able to apply to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority to become licensed
stable coin issuers. Moving on, in
stable coin news, the Genius Act
recently made it past Cloer in the
Senate, which allows senators to vote on
whether they want to approve the Genius
Stablecoin Act and or not. Um, and it
passed in a
66-32 procedural vote on May 20th and is
now heading to debate on the Senate
floor. The bill will seek to set clear
rules for stable coin collateralization
and mandate compliance with AML
laws. This is a big deal. It will be the
first pro-c crypto legislation put forth
in the US since crypto has become a
bipartisan issue uh in the coming in the
recent years.
Guatemala's largest bank has integrated
blockchain for crosschain for crossber
payments. This is largely one of the
killer use cases that blockchain offers
the rest of the world. Currently in the
US, if you want to send remittances to
other countries, you have to use an
outdated service provider like
um uh
TransUnion, I believe. No, Western
Union. That's it. Sorry. And Western
Union just takes a lot of fees. If
you're sending $100 in USD to another
part of the world, sometimes Western
Union could take up to 20 or $30 in
fees, which is 20 to 30% of the money
that's being sent. So now Guatemala's
banks are leveraging blockchain for
crosschain for crossborder payments. Um,
Banco Industrial has integrated crypto
service provider Sukup Pay into its
mobile banking app, allowing locals to
more easily receive remittance is
powered by blockchain. The infra the
Suku pay infrastructure has been fully
embedded inside the Ziggy payment app,
allowing Guatemalans to receive funds
from the US instantly for a 99 cent flat
fee. In addition to Guatemala, the bank
also has operations in Andura, Panama, e
El
Salvador, the SEC has once again delayed
its decisions, this time on ether
staking and XRP
ETFs as analysts had previously
expected. The SEC on May 20 said on May
20th that it needed to extend its
decision on Bitwise's application for
the ETF stake ETH staking by 45 days to
consider the proposed rule change and
issues raised their N. The issue was
required to decide or punt its decision
by May
22nd. Um and now they're going to have
almost all of these filings uh will have
a due date by October. So by October of
this year, we should hear whether the
SEC wants to move forward with these
ETFs and or once again
punt. Crime season is over. The SEC has
charged Uniccoin crypto platform with
over $100 million in fraud.
Um, the SEC said on May 28th that it
charged the CEO, board members, and
former investment chief with misleading
over 5,000 investors about certificates
that conveyed rights to receive Uniccoin
tokens and
stock.
Um, this is awesome.
Uh we're we're finally seeing that the
SEC is going after real criminals and
not sending wells notices to good actors
like Coinbase, Kraken, and others who
are trying to abide by what other
whatever gray murky waters the SEC has
given in terms of regulatory guidance.
Um, lastly in SEC news, uh, Paul Atkins,
the SEC chair, recently went in front of
Congress for one of his first times
since becoming the SEC chair and
basically said that the SEC will be
having something in the next few months
with proposed steps forward. uh which he
referred to the cryptotask force's first
report. So we could start seeing in as
little as a few months the first set of
clear regulatory guidelines that have
been put forth by the crypto task force.
And lastly, New York City Mayor Eric
Adams has launched a crypto advisory
council on the heels of him stating that
he wants New York to become the crypto
capital of the globe.
The group will set forth uh policy
recommendations in the coming
weeks. And
um that he wants to leverage blockchain
technology for more than just security
capabilities, but also for things like
issuing birth certificates and death
records. um so that New Yorkers can
identify their next ofkin when it comes
to uh estate issues that comes with what
happens when people pass away.
Sadly, in addition to Mayor Adams
talking about New York wanting to become
the crypto capital of the world, um New
York state lawmakers also introduced
several bills earlier this year to
regulate crypto. Um, and additionally,
uh, a bill to allow the state's
financial law to allow New York state
agencies to accept crypto as a payment.
Um, we've been able to pay taxes using
cryptocurrencies here in Colorado for
the past couple years, and less than 100
people have actually paid their taxes
with crypto in the past two years. But
that's neither here nor there. Anything
that's a positive step in the right
direction of leveraging this technology
so that people can use it to make
payments is a step in the right
direction. Well, that just about wraps
up everything that happened over the
past day in the broader blockchain and
crypto space. If you want to keep up to
date with what's happening on the daily
digest or our bimonthly podcast episodes
or our weekly spaces, head over to our
subreddit
backsmarteconomy podcast to keep up to
date with what's going on. With all that
said, I look forward to catch you
tomorrow. Cheers.